.Dd April 8, 2025
.Dt BITNETD.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bitnetd.conf
.Nd configuration file for bitnetd
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
file is an INI-format configuration file for
.Xr bitnetd 8 .
.Pp
Lines beginning with
.Sq #
or
.Sq ;
are comments.
Sections are delimited by
.Sq [name] .
Settings are
.Ar key = value
pairs.
.Sh SECTIONS
.Ss [daemon]
.Bl -tag -width "loglevel"
.It Ic user
User to drop privileges to.
.It Ic group
Group to drop privileges to.
.It Ic pidfile
Path to PID file.
Default:
.Pa /var/run/bitnetd.pid .
.It Ic logfile
Path to log file.
.It Ic loglevel
Log level: debug, info, warn, error.
Default: info.
.El
.Ss [model]
.Bl -tag -width "temperature"
.It Ic path
Path to GGUF model file.
.It Ic threads
Number of inference threads.
Default: 4.
.It Ic ctx_size
Context window size.
Default: 4096.
.It Ic temperature
Sampling temperature.
Default: 0.8.
.El
.Ss [server]
.Bl -tag -width "max_connections"
.It Ic listen
TCP listen address in
.Ar host:port
format.
Default: 127.0.0.1:8080.
.It Ic unix_socket
Path to Unix domain socket.
.It Ic max_connections
Maximum concurrent connections.
Default: 64.
.It Ic request_timeout
Request timeout in seconds.
Default: 30.
.It Ic max_body_size
Maximum request body size in bytes.
Default: 65536.
.El
.Ss [backend]
.Bl -tag -width "server_path"
.It Ic server_path
Path to llama-server binary.
.It Ic port
Internal port for llama-server.
Default: 18088.
.El
.Ss [metrics]
.Bl -tag -width "enabled"
.It Ic enabled
Enable Prometheus metrics endpoint.
Default: true.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bitnetd 8 ,
.Xr bitnetctl 1
